# remember-me

If within a project:

> On open, remember what I was doing.
>
> On close, memorize what I'm doing.

If outside a project:

> Don't bother me

## Use Case

I use nvim in a couple of distinct ways.
I'm either working on a project, taking notes/writing or messing with dotfiles/system config.

Sessions only make sense to me when working in a project.

- Default (n)vim session management is cumbersome.

- Session management [plugins](https://github.com/natecraddock/sessions.nvim#related) are overkill since I just want part of that functionality and only when inside a project.

- Project management plugins are overkill since I don't really need to manage my projects, I usually navigate to them using [z.lua](https://github.com/skywind3000/z.lua).

Since nothing felt right, I started writing stuff in my config to fit my needs:

- I just want sessions when inside a project.
- Even inside a project, I don't want sessions if I'm explicitly opening a file, editing a commit or reading a `man` page.
- I don't want any overhead. Set the thing up and forget about it.

## Usage

As such, this plugin has a *set it and forget it* approach to session handling.

The most common manual operation is to forget the current session so you can start fresh, which can be achieved using `:Forget!`.

Aucmds are already set up to handle its behavior when opening and closing nvim.

If that's not enough and/or you wish to extend the behavior, you can manage sessions manually with the user commands:

```vim
" Save the current session,
" with ! disable autosave
:Memorize(!)
" Source the session file
" with ! only if neovim was invoked without args
:Recall(!)
" Delete the session file
" with ! disable autosave
:Forget(!)
" Enable auto saving
" with ! disable autosave
:AutoMemorize(!)
```

Or by calling these functions directly from you `lua` config:

```lua
-- auto enables/disables autosaving
require("remember_me").memorize(auto) 
require("remember_me").forget(auto) 
require("remember_me").autosave(auto) 
require("remember_me").recall(even_if_args)
```

## Setup

As usual, `require("remember_me").setup()` needs to be added to your config.

You can pass a table to `setup()` with your desired config, as explained below.

### Default config

```lua
{
  ignore_ft = { "man", "gitignore", "gitcommit" },
  session_store = "~/.cache/remember-me/",
  ext = ".r.vim",
  project_roots = { ".git", ".svn" },
  autosave = true,
}
```

Full config table can be found [here](https://github.com/EricDriussi/remember-me.nvim/blob/5f3a874fb54794d324f97713d012fb328f6a10e5/lua/remember_me/config.lua#L1).

### Options

Please keep in mind that the config variables you specify will **override** the default ones.

So to **add** a `filetype` to ignore, use `ignore_ft = { "man", "gitignore", "gitcommit", "something_else" }`

- **ignore_ft**

File types for which nothing will happen, even if within a project.
No saving nor loading sessions.

- **session_store**

Where to store and look for sessions. Only affects the sessions managed by this plugin.

It takes both full and relative paths, although relative paths are expanded from nvim's cwd.

- **project_roots**

What defines a project.

The plugin will search up the directory tree until it finds one of these markers and consider the directory in which it found it as the project's root.

Can take files or directories, but can't handle globs or patterns.

- **ext**

The file extension to use for session files. The filename is constructed as `{session_store}{name}{ext}`, where name is autogenerated from the project path.

- **autosave**

Enable autosaving by default
